tests/ENV.md, before:

The following is a list of environment variables that are used to control
behaviour in the Bash tests. This list may not be complete, and as always, the
definitive source is the code.

| Variable name                | Description                                                                        |
|------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `BOOTSTRAP_ADDITIONAL_ARGS`  | Additional arguments passed to `juju bootstrap`.                                   |
| `BOOTSTRAP_ARCH`             | Architecture to bootstrap on - passed to `--bootstrap-constraints`.                |
| `BOOTSTRAP_CLOUD`            | The cloud to use when bootstrapping (i.e. the first argument to `juju bootstrap`). |
| `BOOTSTRAP_PROVIDER`         | The provider to use when bootstrapping (see the `provider` package).               |
| `BOOTSTRAP_REUSE`            | Reuse an existing controller when asked to bootstrap (true/false).                 |
| `BOOTSTRAP_REUSE_LOCAL`      | The name of a local controller to reuse for testing. Set using the `-l` flag.      |
| `BOOTSTRAP_SERIES`           | Series to use for the controller. Set using the `-S` flag.                         |
| `CONTROLLER_CHARM_CHANNEL`   | The channel to pull the controller charm from (CaaS only).                         |
| `CONTROLLER_CHARM_PATH_CAAS` | The Charmhub charm name to pull the controller charm from (CaaS only).             |
| `CONTROLLER_CHARM_PATH_IAAS` | Path to a locally built controller charm to use (IaaS only).                       |
| `KILL_CONTROLLER`            | If `'true'`, controllers will be forcibly killed during teardown.                  |
| `MODEL_ARCH`                 | Will be set as a model constraint on newly added models.                           |
| `OPERATOR_IMAGE_ACCOUNT`     | Passed as the value of `--config caas-image-repo` when bootstrapping.              |
| `TEST_INSPECT`               | If set, pause before teardown to allow inspection of the controller.               |

Commit message:

test: use 'provider' container networking on supported clouds by default in ci tests

tests/ENV.md, after:

The following is a list of environment variables that are used to control
behaviour in the Bash tests. This list may not be complete, and as always, the
definitive source is the code.

| Variable name                 | Description                                                                        |
|-------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `BOOTSTRAP_ADDITIONAL_ARGS`   | Additional arguments passed to `juju bootstrap`.                                   |
| `BOOTSTRAP_ARCH`              | Architecture to bootstrap on - passed to `--bootstrap-constraints`.                |
| `BOOTSTRAP_CLOUD`             | The cloud to use when bootstrapping (i.e. the first argument to `juju bootstrap`). |
| `BOOTSTRAP_PROVIDER`          | The provider to use when bootstrapping (see the `provider` package).               |
| `BOOTSTRAP_REUSE`             | Reuse an existing controller when asked to bootstrap (true/false).                 |
| `BOOTSTRAP_REUSE_LOCAL`       | The name of a local controller to reuse for testing. Set using the `-l` flag.      |
| `BOOTSTRAP_SERIES`            | Series to use for the controller. Set using the `-S` flag.                         |
| `CONTROLLER_CHARM_CHANNEL`    | The channel to pull the controller charm from (CaaS only).                         |
| `CONTROLLER_CHARM_PATH_CAAS`  | The Charmhub charm name to pull the controller charm from (CaaS only).             |
| `CONTROLLER_CHARM_PATH_IAAS`  | Path to a locally built controller charm to use (IaaS only).                       |
| `KILL_CONTROLLER`             | If `'true'`, controllers will be forcibly killed during teardown.                  |
| `MODEL_ARCH`                  | Will be set as a model constraint on newly added models.                           |
| `OPERATOR_IMAGE_ACCOUNT`      | Passed as the value of `--config caas-image-repo` when bootstrapping.              |
| `TEST_INSPECT`                | If set, pause before teardown to allow inspection of the controller.               |
| `CONTAINER_NETWORKING_METHOD` | If set, the default container networking method (`local`, `provider`, or `fan`).   |
