docs/howto/index.md, before:

(how-to-guides)=
# How-to guides

**Step-by-step guides** covering key operations and common tasks

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:hidden:

Manage your deployment <manage-your-deployment>
Manage juju <manage-juju>
Manage plugins <manage-plugins>
Manage clouds <manage-clouds>
Manage credentials <manage-credentials>
Manage metadata <manage-metadata>
Manage controllers <manage-controllers>
Manage the Juju dashboard <manage-the-juju-dashboard>
Manage users <manage-users>
Manage SSH keys <manage-ssh-keys>
Manage models <manage-models>
Manage logs <manage-logs>
Manage charms or bundles <manage-charms>
Manage applications <manage-applications>
Manage resources <manage-charm-resources>
Manage actions <manage-actions>
Manage relations <manage-relations>
Manage offers <manage-offers>
Manage units <manage-units>
Manage secrets <manage-secrets>
Manage secret backends <manage-secret-backends>
Manage machines <manage-machines>
Manage storage <manage-storage>
Manage storage pools <manage-storage-pools>
Manage spaces <manage-spaces>
Manage subnets <manage-subnets>
Define resource tags in a cloud <define-resource-tags-in-a-cloud>
Fan container networking <fan-container-networking>

```


## Your Juju deployment: the bird's eye view

<!--*Get a high-level view of how to do things in Juju, from {ref}`setting up your deployment environment and setting up a basic deployment <manage-your-deployment-environment>` through {ref}`hardening <harden-your-deployment>` and {ref}`upgrading <upgrade-your-deployment>`  your deployment all the way to {ref}`troubleshooting procedures <troubleshoot-your-deployment>` and {ref}`steps to take your deployment offline <take-your-deployment-offline>`.*-->

Get a quick sense of how to do things in Juju, from preparing your deployment environment and setting up a basic deployment through hardening and upgrading your deployment all the way to troubleshooting procedures and steps to take your deployment offline.

- {ref}`Manage your deployment <manage-your-deployment>`

## Administering Juju

Everything from how to install or upgrade the `juju` CLI and any desired plugins; connect clouds; bootstrap a Juju controller; stand up the Juju dashboard; plan and set up users, SSH keys, models, and secret backends; and get comfortable extracting and analyzing logs.

- {ref}`Manage the juju CLI <manage-juju>`
- {ref}`Manage plugins <manage-plugins>`
- {ref}`Manage clouds <manage-clouds>`
- {ref}`Manage credentials <manage-credentials>`
- {ref}`Manage metadata <manage-metadata>`
- {ref}`Manage controllers <manage-controllers>`
- {ref}`Manage the Juju dashboard <manage-the-juju-dashboard>`
- {ref}`Manage users <manage-users>`
- {ref}`Manage SSH keys <manage-ssh-keys>`
- {ref}`Manage models <manage-models>`
- {ref}`Manage secret backends <manage-secret-backends>`
- {ref}`Manage logs <manage-logs>`


## Building with Juju

Deploy, configure, and maintain your infrastructure and applications with Juju.

- {ref}`Manage charms or bundles <manage-charms>`
- {ref}`Manage applications <manage-applications>`
- {ref}`Manage resources <manage-charm-resources>`
- {ref}`Manage actions <manage-actions>`
- {ref}`Manage relations <manage-relations>`
- {ref}`Manage offers <manage-offers>`
- {ref}`Manage units <manage-units>`
- {ref}`Manage secrets <manage-secrets>`
- {ref}`Manage machines <manage-machines>`
- {ref}`Manage storage <manage-storage>`
- {ref}`Manage storage pools <manage-storage-pools>`
- {ref}`Manage spaces <manage-spaces>`
- {ref}`Manage subnets <manage-subnets>`
- {ref}`Manage logs <manage-logs>`

Commit message:

docs: in htg deployment break down upgrade story

docs/howto/index.md, after:

(how-to-guides)=
# How-to guides

**Step-by-step guides** covering key operations and common tasks

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:hidden:

Manage your deployment <manage-your-deployment>
Manage juju <manage-juju>
Manage plugins <manage-plugins>
Manage clouds <manage-clouds>
Manage credentials <manage-credentials>
Manage metadata <manage-metadata>
Manage controllers <manage-controllers>
Manage the Juju dashboard <manage-the-juju-dashboard>
Manage users <manage-users>
Manage SSH keys <manage-ssh-keys>
Manage models <manage-models>
Manage logs <manage-logs>
Manage charms or bundles <manage-charms>
Manage applications <manage-applications>
Manage resources <manage-charm-resources>
Manage actions <manage-actions>
Manage relations <manage-relations>
Manage offers <manage-offers>
Manage units <manage-units>
Manage secrets <manage-secrets>
Manage secret backends <manage-secret-backends>
Manage machines <manage-machines>
Manage storage <manage-storage>
Manage storage pools <manage-storage-pools>
Manage spaces <manage-spaces>
Manage subnets <manage-subnets>
Define resource tags in a cloud <define-resource-tags-in-a-cloud>
Fan container networking <fan-container-networking>

```

(your-juju-deployment-the-birds-eye-view)=
## Your Juju deployment: the bird's eye view

<!--*Get a high-level view of how to do things in Juju, from {ref}`setting up your deployment environment and setting up a basic deployment <manage-your-deployment-environment>` through {ref}`hardening <harden-your-deployment>` and {ref}`upgrading <upgrade-your-deployment>`  your deployment all the way to {ref}`troubleshooting procedures <troubleshoot-your-deployment>` and {ref}`steps to take your deployment offline <take-your-deployment-offline>`.*-->

Get a quick sense of how to do things in Juju, from preparing your deployment environment and setting up a basic deployment through hardening and upgrading your deployment all the way to troubleshooting procedures and steps to take your deployment offline.

- {ref}`Manage your deployment <manage-your-deployment>`

(administering-juju)=
## Administering Juju

Everything from how to install or upgrade the `juju` CLI and any desired plugins; connect clouds; bootstrap a Juju controller; stand up the Juju dashboard; plan and set up users, SSH keys, models, and secret backends; and get comfortable extracting and analyzing logs.

- {ref}`Manage the juju CLI <manage-juju>`
- {ref}`Manage plugins <manage-plugins>`
- {ref}`Manage clouds <manage-clouds>`
- {ref}`Manage credentials <manage-credentials>`
- {ref}`Manage metadata <manage-metadata>`
- {ref}`Manage controllers <manage-controllers>`
- {ref}`Manage the Juju dashboard <manage-the-juju-dashboard>`
- {ref}`Manage users <manage-users>`
- {ref}`Manage SSH keys <manage-ssh-keys>`
- {ref}`Manage models <manage-models>`
- {ref}`Manage secret backends <manage-secret-backends>`
- {ref}`Manage logs <manage-logs>`


(building-with-juju)=
## Building with Juju

Deploy, configure, and maintain your infrastructure and applications with Juju.

- {ref}`Manage charms or bundles <manage-charms>`
- {ref}`Manage applications <manage-applications>`
- {ref}`Manage resources <manage-charm-resources>`
- {ref}`Manage actions <manage-actions>`
- {ref}`Manage relations <manage-relations>`
- {ref}`Manage offers <manage-offers>`
- {ref}`Manage units <manage-units>`
- {ref}`Manage secrets <manage-secrets>`
- {ref}`Manage machines <manage-machines>`
- {ref}`Manage storage <manage-storage>`
- {ref}`Manage storage pools <manage-storage-pools>`
- {ref}`Manage spaces <manage-spaces>`
- {ref}`Manage subnets <manage-subnets>`
- {ref}`Manage logs <manage-logs>`
